When a request comes to a web server, it's passed to Django which tries to figure out what is actually requested. It takes a web page address first and tries to figure out what to do. This part is done by Django's urlresolver (note that a website address is called a URL – Uniform Resource Locator – so the name urlresolver makes sense).



manage.py is a script that helps with management of the site. With it we will be able (amongst other things) to start a web server on our computer without installing anything else.



The settings.py file contains the configuration of your website



urls.py file contains a list of patterns used by urlresolver.


To create a database for our blog, let's run the following in the console: python manage.py migrate


A model in Django is a special kind of object – it is saved in the database.


You can think of a model in the database as a spreadsheet with columns (fields) and rows (data).



python manage.py startapp blog.You will notice that a new blog directory is created and it contains a number of files now. 


The last step here is to add our new model to our database. First we have to make Django know that we have some changes in our model. (We have just created it!) Go to your console window and type python manage.py makemigrations blog


To make our model visible on the admin page, we need to register the model with admin.site.register(Post).


To log in, you need to create a superuser - a user account that has control over everything on the site. Go back to the command line, type python manage.py createsuperuser


URLconf is a set of patterns that Django will try to match with the requested URL to find the correct view.


url(r'^admin/', admin.site.urls), This line means that for every URL that starts with admin/, Django will find a corresponding view.


^ for the beginning of the text
$ for the end of the text
\d for a digit
+ to indicate that the previous item should be repeated at least once
() to capture part of the pattern


A view is a place where we put the "logic" of our application. It will request information from the model you created before and pass it to a template.






